# Clean Coding Convention

> Developing your own set of principled coding conventions to produce high quality software possible using industry standards, tools, approaches,a nd methods

**table of content:**

- Project planning

- Documentation

- Organizing things

- Formatting & style

- Comments

- Naming things

- Errors & exception handling

- Testing

- Refactoring

- Architecture basics

## Project Planning

##### Notes

How do you plan a new project ?

- A lot of times developers - they start building out of the API
  
  - API first
    
    - Benefits:
      
      - We're starting imperatively. We're actually starting out  by building something
    
    - Drawbacks
      
      - It's easier to miss small nuances
    
    - Works well for:
      
      - CRUD apps
    
    - Doesn't work well for
      
      - Apps with domain logic complexity
  
  - Database first

---

## Documentation

---

## Organizing Things

##### Why code organization matters

- The way you organize code has a profound impact on:
  
  - How long it takes to develop new features
  
  - How long it takes to locate a feature
  
  - How much mental energy it takes to change code
    
    - Flipping back and forth between files & folders
  
  - Knowing where new code should go

- Colocation

- Different types of packaging and the ergonomics of 'em'

##### Practical naming

###### Principles

- Use conventions
  
  - Your source code goes in the src/ folder
  
  - docs go in the docs/ folder
  
  - config
  
  - examples
  
  - dist/build/ for compiled code

- Keep your code DRY / don't repeat yourself with files

- Group files related to a feature close to each other(colocate files with high cohesion)
  
  - Experiment and notice how often you're flipping around and getting fatigued
  
  - Examples:
    
    - DDD forum use cases

- As flat as possible

- Screaming architecture

- Shared folder for anything that doesn't

- Use package by infrastructure on small projects

- Package by feature on larger projects

Great examples:

- DDD forum

- Apollo Client open source library

###### Organizing and context

Here we have all of these files adhering to the same naming convention.

```ts
useCases/
    createUser/
    editUser/
    deleteUser/
        DeleteUserUseCase.ts
        DeleteUserErrors.ts
        DeleteUserController.ts
        DeleteUserResolver.ts
```

###### How to settle design arguments

- In subjective converstaions about design, there's only one way to decide - observe users. This is what we do in Human-Centered Design
  
  - GOMS - this process exists so you can measure the efficiency it takes a user to accomplish a task
  
  - If you're uncertain about some approach to designing your code or making so API easy to use, this is a way to handle that.

---

## Formatting & style

> Each of the following suggestinos are tactical ways for use to improve the design of our code to promote better **readibility** & **discoverability**.
> 
> It's important to address that **formatting is increadibliy subjective**. SOme developers prefer to use tabs over spaces; some prefer using max line lenghts of 80 characters. These subtle choices that will always be debatable.

If you're working on a team:

- Establish the formatting rules that you would like every to adhere to.

- Enforce those rules.

##### Objective readibility truths

I said that formatting is subjective. This is true of anything visual. Code looking *good* is **extremely subjective**

```ts
java developers may prefer to write conditional like this:
if(isAccountOverdue) {
    ...
}
while C developers may prefer:
if(isAccountOverdue) 
{
    ...
}
```

Is one approach better than the other? Who knows. That's an age-old debate. However, since you and i are both human beings, **there are certain physiological limitations we all share in common**

because we are human:

- Without proper use of *whitespace*, code becomes virtually impossible to read.

- Without *consistency*, we can't build turn on the pattern matching algorithm in our brains. THis increases the amount of time it takes to grow accustomed to a new codebase.

- Without *storytelling* and presenting the most important details upfront, readers can lose interest and get fatigued

##### Whitespace

> Whitespace an atoic component of fostering readable code. It's used to separate thoughts tokens, algorithms, and so on. On a small scale, look at this code. While it is syntatically correct, the lack whitespace makes it hard to read.
> 
> ```ts
> const artists = this.artistRepo,getArtists();const artistNames:string=artists.map(a)=>a.name);
> ```

**5 different types of programming tokens:**

1. Keywords are reserved words: function, class, const.

2. Identifiers are what we are allowed to use as class, variable, and method names: user, userOne, userModel.

3. Operators are tokens that enables us to do logical operations: assignment(=), addition(+), and substraction(-).

4. Separators create whitespace in our doce: tabs, spaces, and newlines

5. Literals are integers, decimals, and strings.

###### Use obvious spacing rules

*Bad horizontal spacing*

```ts
const x=12;

const user = {name: "khali"}


class Employer {
    public update(details: CompanyDetails):Result<UpdateResult>{
    ...
    }
}
```

*Goodhorizontal spacing*

```ts
const x = 12;

const user = { name: "khali" }


class Employer {
    public update (details: CompanyDetails): Result<UpdateResult> {
    ...
    }
}
```

Using horizontal spacing helps to delineate token types. Each line of code is slightly easier to read. Horizontal identation also makes it easier to visualize the *scope* of a method, class, or function. Scope is easy to see by comparing how statements sit up and down the Y-axis.

###### Keep code density low

> Measurement of how many lines of code go without a line break. Line breaks are like commas in English. Both signal a resting point, another step, or a separate thought being expressed. Line breaks help to make code easier to digest.

ex: Apollo GraphQL’s open-source RESTDataSource API.

```ts
export class HTTPCache {
    ...
    async fetch(
        request: Request,
        options: FetchOptions = {},
    ): Promise<Response> {
        /**
        * 1. Create the cache key. You can either supply a cache key or leave it blank
        * and Apollo will use the URL of the request as the key.
        */

        const cacheKey = options.cacheKey ? options.cacheKey : request.url;

        /**
        * 2. Using that key, see if the cache has the value already.
        */

        const entry = await this.keyValueCache.get(cachekey);

        /**
        * 3. It it doesn't already have the response, we'll need to
        * get it, store the response in the cache, and return the
        * response.
        */

        if(!entry) {
            const response = await this.fetch.httpFetch(reqeust);

            const policy = new CachePolich(
                policyRequestFrom(request),
                policyResponseFrom(response),
            );

            return this.storeResponseAndReturnClone(
                response,
                request,
                policy,
                cacheKey,
                options.cacheOptions,
            );
        }

    }
}
```

Line breaks help make it easier to digest and comb through potentially challenging logic. It's also good when functions or class methods are kept small. Line breaks between each method are not only convetional, but help readability.

###### Break horizontally when necessary

Strategically break your code horizontally whein it surpasses an appropriate line length(most developers use line length from **80 to 120 characters long**).

*Bad horizontal breaking*

```ts
export class UpvotePost implements UseCase<UpvotePostDTO, Promise<UpvotePostResponse>> {
    ...
    constructor (memberRepo: IMemberRepo, postRepo: IPostRepo, postVotesRepo: IPostVotesRepo, postService: PostService) {
        this.memberRepo = memberRepo;
        this.postRepo = postRepo;
        this.postVotesRepo = postVotesRepo
        this.postService = postService;
    }
}
```

*Good horizontal breaking*

```ts
export class UpvotePost implements UseCase<
    UpvotePostDTO,
    Promise<UpvotePostResponse>
> {
    ...
    constructor (
        memberRepo: IMemberRepo,
        postRepo: IPostRepo,
        postVotesRepo: IPostVoteRepo,
        postService: PostService
    ) {
        this.memberRepo = memberRepo;
        this.postRepo = postRepo;
        this.postVotesRepo = postVotesRepo;
        this.postService = postService;
    }
}
```

###### Prefer smaller files

In Uncle Bob's research on clean code, he discovered the average file size accross several enterprise Java projects were 200 to 500 lines long. Smaller files are generally easier to read and maintain. Less code in a file means less to read.

If there's less to read, there's less to understand, and the surface area of getting confused about what the file **does**(separation of concerns), and what it's **responsible for**(single responsibility) is smaller.

##### Consistency

> Helps readers build comprehension momentum

As you grow acclimated to a new project, your ability to read code and understand how things work should increase exponentially. Humans pick up on patterns. It's how we make sense of the world. Without consistency, we can't identify patterns, and we certainly can't build momentum.

###### Capitalization

The way we use capitalization in programming is strategic. 3 primary capitalization conventions:

- Pascal case, which LooksLikeThis

- Camel case, which looksLikeThis, and

- Underscores/Snake case, which looks_like_this

Capitalization provides additional information about identifiers. ex: camel casing for *variables and methods*, and pascal case for *classes and namespaces*.

in JS & TS, *camelCase* preferred for variables, functions, and class members, while *PascalCase* is preferred for everything else like class names, namespaces, types and interfaces.

###### Whitespace rules

If one developer's code editor adds 4 spaces when they hti the TAB, and another add 2 spaces when they hit TAB, you'll start to resent any developer writing code in files you previously written code, with them messing up your beautiful formatting.

##### Storytelling

> People lose interest and get confused if the most important details aren't provided up front

###### Newspaper Code and the Step-down Principle

In a traditional story, we take the reader through a journey by setting up the scene, introducing them to the characters, then posing the conflict. We don't want to do that with code. Instead, let's get to the interesting stuff **right away**.

> The *newspaper Code Principle* says to **front-load** a file with the **most important things**. By putting the most essential things that we want the reader to know about first, and moving the less critical(yet likely still important) details towards the bottom, readers can learn the primary reason why the class exists in the first place, much quicker.

###### Maintaining a consistent level of abstraction

```ts
export class RecordingStudio {
    ...
    public async recordSong (demoNameQuery: string, artist: Artist): void {
        const demo = this.getDemoFromLibrary(demoNameQuery, artist);

        // The level of abstraction here...
        const instruments = demo.getInstruments();
        for (let instrument of intstruments) {
            this.prepareIntrument();
        }
        this.metronomoe.setBpm(demo.bpm);
        this.assembleMusiciansForIntruments(instruments);
        this.controls.startRecording();
        await this.bandroom.performSong(demo);
        this.controls.stopRecording();

        // ... is different from the level of abstraction here
        await this.recordVocals(demo);
        await this.mixLevels(demo);
        await this.masterDemo(demo);
    }
}
```

###### Code should descend in abstraction towards lower-level details

We can group those frist few operations as recordMusicFromDemo, maintaining a similar level of abstraction from within recordSong method and leaving the details to live within each respective method for further decomposition.

```ts
export class RecordingStudio {
    ...
    public async recordSong (demoNameQuery: string, artist: Artist): void {
        const demo = this.getDemoFromLibrary(demoNameQuery, artist);
        await this.recordMusicFromDemo(demo);
        await this.recordVocals(demo);
        await this.mixLevels(demo);
        await this.masterDemo(demo);
    }
}
```

###### Keeping related methods close to each other

Sometimes there are methods or functions that just belong together. ex: *getter/setter* pair broken up by a *logout* method.

```ts
// Bad
export class Member extends Aggregate<MemberProps> {
    ...
    get username (): Username{
        return this.props.username;
    }

    // Breaks relationship between getter/setter above and below
    public logout (): void {
        this.addDomainEvent(new UserLoggedOut(this));    
    }

    set username (username: string): void {
        const newUserNameResult: Result<Username> = Username.create(username)        
        if(newUserNameResult.isSuccess()) {
            this.addDomainEvenet(new UsernameChanged(this);
            this.props.username = newUserNameResult.getValue();
        }
    }
}


// Good
export class Member extends Aggregate<MemberProps> {
    ...
    get username (): Username{
        return this.props.username;
    }

    set username (username: string): void {
        const newUserNameResult: Result<Username> = Username.create(username)    
        if(newUserNameResult.isSuccess()) {
            this.addDomainEvenet(new UsernameChanged(this);
            this.props.username = newUserNameResult.getValue();
        }
    }

    public logout (): void {
        this.addDomainEvent(new UserLoggedOut(this));    
    }
}
```

In summary, when you format code:

- Use whitespace appropriately

- Be consistent with formatting

- Use storytelling to put the **most important things first** & **logically group code that belongs together**

##### Enforcing formatting rules with tooling

Currnet trifecta tooling for formatting JS/TS:

- ESLint (over TSLint)

- Prettier

- Hustky

###### ESLint

JavaScript linter that enables you to enforce a set of style, formatting, and coding standards for your codebase. ex: rule to enforce no console.log statements.

```json
// eslint.rc
{
    "root": true,
    "parser": "@typescript-eslint/parser",
    "plugins": [
        "@typescript-eslint",
        "no-loops"
    ],
    "extends": [
        "eslint:recommended",
        "plugin:@typescript-eslint/eslint-recommended",
        "plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended"
    ],
    "rules": {
        "no-console": "error" // you can also use the int value "2"
    }
}

// package.json
{
    "scripts": {
        ...
        "lint": "eslint . --ext .ts",
    }
}

// and run it with
npm run lint
```

in ESLint, you can set your rules to be either off, warn, or error.

- "off" means o (turns the rule off completely)

- "warn" means 1 (turns the rule on but won't return a non-zero exit code)

- "error" means 2 (turns the rule on and will return a non-zero exit code)

ESLint becomse more useful when we combine it with Prettier and Husky.

###### Prettier

Can be configured to format your code after you save a file or manually tell it to.

With ESLint and Prettier:

- ESLint **defines the code conventions**

- Prettier **performs the auto-formatting** based on the ESLint rules in the config.

```json
{
    "semi": true,
    "trailingComma": "none",
    "singleQuote": true,
    "printWidth": 80   
}
```

###### Husky

npm package that "makes Git hooks easy". 

When you initiaze Git on a project, it automatically comes with a feature called hooks.

With Hustky, we can ensure that for a new developer working in our codebase:

- Hooks get created locally

- Hooks are run when the Git comand is called

- Policy that defines how someone can contribute to a project is enforce.

Therefore:

- ESLint defines the code conventions

- Prettier performs the auto-formatting based on the ESLint rules in the config.

- Husky ensures that the formatting scripts get applied before any code makes its
  way into source control.

---

## Comments

##### Code explains what and how, comments explain why

When we use English to write declarative code that uses good names, we establish the *what*. 

```ts
export class SpotifyService {

    public createMusicRecommendations (
        history: ListeningHistory,
        artists: Artists,
        playLists: Playlists
    ): Promise<MusicRecommendations> {
        ...
    }
}
```

At a very high-level, we should be able to deduce from the method name, parameters, and as much declarative code as possible inside of a method or function body - *what* the code does.

Without descending a layer deeper into subsequent method calls and lower-level details, the high-level code **excels at explaining the what**. Lower-level code describe the *how*. With each descending layer of abstraction, the code should continue to explain that *how*.

If you can get all the way to the bottom without feeling like comments are necessary because the code is that clear and readable, applaud yourself.

However, it's possible that you'll:

- Encounter something that can't easily be refactored to be sipler.

- Require the use of an algorithm or implementation that is **fundamentally more coplex** (absolute complexity) usually for performance or optimization reasons.

At this point, it's a good idea to write a comment. ex: assume you have a one-liner that is necessary, but comlex.

```js
num = ('0'+num).substr(-2);
```

At the moment, this code answers **none of the following questions**.

- What: What does this do ?

- How: How does it do it ? (**relies on first knowing what**)

- Why: Why is it done this way ?

```ts
export class TextUtils {
    /**
        * We've found that when conditionally display numbers
        * with leading zeros, like seconds in the format of hh:mm:ss,
        * we can't rely on JavaScript's default string formatting abilities.
        *
        * Use this when the minutes or seconds are less than ten, and
        * you want to see :00 and not just :0.
    */

    public static padZeros (num: number | string): string {
        return ('0'+num).substr(-2)
    }    
}
...
num = TextUtils.padZeros(num);
```

##### Comments clutter code

Comments that answer why are the only time I can advocate for them being neccessary.

```ts
// Bad
const _x: number = abs(x - deviceInfo.position.x) / scale;
let directionCode;
if (0 < _x & x != deviceInfo.position.x) {
    if (0 > x - deviceInfo.position.x) {
        directionCode = 0x04 /*left*/;    
    } else if (0 < x - deviceInfo.position.x) {
        directionCode = 0x02 /*right*/;
    }
}

// Good
const DIRECTIONCODE_RIGHT: number = 0x02;
const DIRECTIONCODE_LEFT: number = 0x04;
const DIRECTIONCODE_NONE: number = 0x00;
const oldX = deviceInfo.position.x;
const directionCode = (x > oldX) ? DIRECTIONCODE_RIGHT : (x < oldX) ? DIRECTIONCODE_LEFT
```

###### Turning comments into clear, explanatory, declarative code

```ts
// Check to see if buyer eligible for loan for property
        // if the buyers credit score is greater than the minimal approval
            // and the last job they were at, they were there for longer than the
            // minimum employment length
        // AND, their downpayment preferred value is the minimum downpayment
    // based on the type of property it is,
    // THEN, we will approve their loan


// Into

// Check to see if buyer eligible for loan for propery
if(
    (buyer.creditScore >= MIN_APPROVAL_SCORE) &&
    (buyer.jobHistory
        .getLast()
        .getEmploymentLength() >= MIN_EMPLOYMENT_LENGTH) &&
    (downpayment.value) >= getMinimumDownpayment(property, downpaymentPercentage)
)
```

This is the heart of what we do in the domain layer in a clean architecture using **Domain Driven Design**, but it's possible in any code. This code is a bit verbose, so we can now encapsulate that complexity within the correct objects, maintaining the language we initially used when we wrote the comments.

> if(buyer.isEligibleForLoan(property, downpaymentPercentage))

###### Bad Comments

**Redudancy** - Using comments to say something that is already adequately expressed with code.

```ts
export class UserService {
    /**
     * This method gets the user by user id.
     */
    getUserByUserId (userId: string): Promise<User> {
        ...
    }
}
```

**Log/Journal entries** -  Comments that describes when and what was changed, and who issued the change.

```ts
/**
 * 01-03-2008 - Tony Soprano - Added the ability to also work on strings.
 * 01-02-2008 - D. Draper - Added this method to act as a utility that
 * can be reused.
*/
```

**Commented out code** - Code that is commented out should be deleted.

```ts
// function parseHandle (url, type) {
    // switch (type) {
        // case "twitter":
        // url = url.replace("@", "");
        // url = removeUpTo(url, 'twitter.com/');
        // url = stripQueryParams(url);
        // return url;
    // default:
        // return url;
    // }
// }
```

**Closing brace comments**

```ts
if (this.exists(userId)) {
    if (this.wasEmailNotificationSent(userId)) {
        ...
    } // end of inner if
} // end of if
```

##### When to write comments

To summarize:

- Notice that code seems complex or that another human being may not understand it.

- First attempt to refactor the code

- If it can't be easily refactored or further refactoring would make it even more complex, or if there is something contextually important that cannot be said with the code, **leave a comment**.

##### Demonstration

Swizec Teller, has a different methodology to commenting than I do. Suggesting that senior developers leave comments "to explain why things work".

```ts
class Form {

    private isSectionFirstInArray (fields): boolean {
        return !Array.isArray(fields);
    }

    private makeArray (field) {
        return [field]
    }

    private getLastValue (fields) {
        const lastField = fields.slice(-1)[0];
        return this.values[lastField.id]
    }

... // and so on

    get formConfig () {
        ...
        .reduce((fields, field) => {

            if (this.isSectionFirstInArray(fields)) {
                fields = this.makeArray(fields);
            }

            if (this.isAnsweredField(fields, field) || this.isNextField(fields, field)) {
                return [...fields, field]
            }

            // Shouldn't be visible yet - I left this, as it explains what cannot
            // reasonably be refactored to be said in words
            return fields;
            })
        })
    }
}   
```

###### Example: Adding additional context

In Apollo Client, if you don't declare your primary key fields, it's possible you may lose data when it gets fetched and merged on the client. To add additional context, the author left a comment letting readers know that the function would likely be romoved from production builds if code gets minified.

```ts
// Note that this function is unused in production, and thus should be
// pruned by any well-configured minifier.
function warnAboutDataLoss(
    existingRef: Reference,
    incomingObj: StoreObject,
    storeFieldName: string,
    store: NormalizedCache,
) {
    ...
}
```

##### Relationship to Human Centered Design

###### The relationship between comments & human centered design

- **The argument I'm trying to make**
  
  > Comments should only explain the **why**. It should never explain **what**. It should never read to explain **how**.

    Most important characteristics of design are **discoverability** and **understanding**.

    **Discoverability** = What are the possible actions ? Where are they ? How do I perform them ?

    **Understanding** = What does it mean ? How is this suppossed to be used ? What do the controls mean ?

**More doors examples**

- Two of the most important
  
  - A door with a *curved grippable* handle on it - what would you assume it can do ?
  
  - A door with a *flat metalic surface* - what would you assume it can do ?
  
  - A door with no handle, no flat, metalic surface, and no labels
  
  - A door with a *handle* that says **PUSH** - what would you assume it could do ?

---

## Naming Things

> Among the hardest problems in the computer science

When names are *good*, it tells readers **what** our code does and **how**.

When names are *poor*, it substracts from the understandability and overall quality of our code. This means it takes new developers longer to ramp up to a new codebase, learn the glossary of new terms from the domain, and contribute in a meaningfull ways.

##### The seven principles of naming

> Principles originally enumerated by **Tom Benner** from NamingThings.co

Like most things in science, there's no such thing as **perfect** and with naming things, you'll certainly find that to be true. There's a way to get pretty dang close to *good enough*. 

The principles:

1. **Consistency & uniqueness**

2. **Understandability**

3. **Specifity**

4. **Brevity**

5. **Searchability**

6. **Pronounceability**

7. **Austerity**

##### Consistency & uniqueness

> Each concept should be represented by a single, unique name - via NamingThings.co

###### Consistency

**The human brain, in order to learn, relies on consistency.**

Skilled conference speakers take advantage of this fact by strategically using repetition in order to really drive home the main takeways.

In a new codebase:

- We read code

- We identify the choices that have been made

- We ask questions

- We look for patterns

Using the patterns we've identified, we attempt to extend those patterns in future scenarios. If we fail or need to be corrected, we adjust and improve the next time around. This process takes a variable amount of time, but we should be consistently improving-like a *feedback* loop.

> **Learning a new codebase** Feedback Loop
> 
> **Reading** -> **Coding** -> **Submission** -> **Analyze** -> **Improve** -> **Repeat**
> 
> - Reading: Project acclimation & domain glossary discovery
> 
> - Coding: Using current understanding
> 
> - Submission: Code reviews / PR
> 
> - Analyze: Comments, suggestions, discussions & corrections
> 
> - Improve: Revision, reflection & learning
> 
> - Repeat: New task

**Consistency helps:**

- Build momentum

- Improves each iteration of that feedback loop, increasing our ability to become productive.

- Seeing things done a particular way consistently prepares us for how to handle similar situations in the future. By presenting knowledge in a consistent way, people can build patterns against it.

###### Uniqueness

**It ensures a singular understanding of a new concept**. ex:

- Q: What's the difference between a *Job* and *JobObject* ?

- Q: When should I use *Job*and when should I use *JobObject* ?

- Q: Let's say I have some new functionality to add. Should I add it to *Job* or *JobObject*?

Good things is we have lots of best practices against naming things. ex: **Prefer Domain-Specific Names over Tech-y Sounding Names**

###### Best Practices

- **Avoid using similar words to express the same concept(thesaurus names)**
  
  What's the difference between get, show, display, and present ? If they're all supposed to represent the same or different behaviour, it's not easy to determine that.
  
  ```ts
  export class PostAPI {
      getAuthor (): Promise<Author> { ... }
      fetchPosts (): Promise<Posts> { ... }
      showTags (): Promise<Tags> { ... }
      presentCategories (): Promise<Categories> { ... }
  }
  ```
  
  Instead of using different words, choose one word to express the concept that we're trying to represent, and stict to that throughout the entirety of the project.

- **Follow programming language and project(naming) coding conventions**
  
  The language conventions are secondary to whatever coding conventions that you and your team decide upon enforcing(hopefully using tooling).
  
  ex: (naming) coding conventions you could enforce(via Formik):
  
  - Use PascalCase for type names
  
  - Do not use "I" as a prefix for interface names
  
  - Do not use "_" as a prefix for private properties
  
  - Use isXXXing or hasXXXXed for variables representing states of things(ef: isLoading, hasCompletedOnBoarding)
  
  ```ts
  // THis is conventional! Use PascalCase for types.
  type User = {
      id: string;
      name: string
  }
  
  
  // Also conventional usage!
  interface Serializable {
  
      // But notice that property names/attributes are NOT PascalCase, but camelCase instead
      toJSON(): string;
  }
  
  
  // PascalCase on classes are conventional
  class UserModel implements Serializable {
      ...
  }
  
  const shouldLIstenToJohnMaus = likesWeirdMusic() && isGenerallyAHappyPerson();
  ```

- **Avoid very similar variable names by mis-spelling(or using correct, alternate spellings)**
  
  ex: color, colour, paymentProcessor, PaymentProccessor

- **Don't use the same name to express concepts from within the same namespace**
  
  It's important to really:
  
  - Imagine importing *formatEmail* from *shared/utils* and importing *formatEmail* from *users/domain/email*.
  
  - This is really just another way to say write **DRY** code.
  
  Then again:
  
  - AThng in shipping subdomain, and AThng from a bidding subdomain have entirely different meanings depending on the context.
    
    - Make sure that if you're going to use similar names to enforce boundaries between those domains to allow the same names to be used in a way that doesn't clash syntactically(errors) and doesn't clash semantically(our understanding).
  
  - It does have the potential to introduce confusion if a new subdomain C relied on a concept from A that also has something with the same name from B.
    
    - If all we know is the name, how does C know which one is the correct one to use ?

- **Don't recycle variable names**
  
  When writing functions with temporary variables, it's advised to create as many tomporary variables as you need rather than re-initialize and overwrite *one* used for several different purposes.
  
  If a variable is beinf used for several purposes, it's actually rather challenging to distinguish the **current purpose** of the variable at any point in time, and it's rather easy to forget to reinitialize it when purposes change.
  
  **Bad**
  
  ```ts
  let sum = 0;
  
  categories.map((c) => {
    if(c.name === selectedCategory) {
          sum += 1;
      }  
  })
  
  
  console.log("Category match total score is", sum);
  
  
  sum = 0;
  tags.map((t) => {
  if (t.name === selectedTag) {
  sum += 1;
  }
  })
  console.log("Tag match total score is", sum);
  ```
  
  **Good**
  
  ```ts
  let categorySum = 0;
  
  categories.map((c) => {
      if (c.name === selectedCategory) {
          categorySum += 1;
      }
  })
  
  console.log("Category match total score is", categorySum);
  
  let tagSum = 0;
  tags.map((t) => {
      if (t.name === selectedTag) {
          tagSum += 1;
      }
  })
  
  console.log("Tag match total score is", tagSum);
  ```
  
  Names should be unique, regardless of the case. empName, EmpName, and Empname all refer to the same concept. They should not all exist in the same program as different things. That's a sure-fire way to foster confusion.

##### Understandability

> A *name should describe the concept it represents.* - via NamingThings.co

###### Knowledge in the world

> As a software designer, when naming things, lean more on **naming things to rely on knowledge in the world.**

Knowledge in the *head* is memory - things we have to think about. THings that could take us a moment to recall how they work. It's often logical or requires some upfront processing to summon. ex: What's 12 x 9 ?

###### Representing real-world concepts

###### Best Practices

##### Specificity

##### Brevity

##### Searchability

##### Pronounceability

##### Austerity

---

## Errors & Exception Handling

##### Relevant links

---

## Testing

##### BDD & TDD

##### Unit Test

---

## Refactoring

---

## Architecture Basics

jaeger
